Docs: Add Environment Variable Page V2.0 (#4322)
RadeonOpenCompute/ROCm: docs/reference/env-variables.rst

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************
ROCm environment variables
*************************************************************

The following table lists the most commonly used environment variables in the ROCm software stack. These variables help to perform simple tasks such as building a ROCm library or running applications on AMDGPUs.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``HIP_PATH``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``
        | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform, if it can find NVCC.
      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

HIP environment variables
=========================

> The following table lists the HIP environment variables:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tables list the HIP environment variables:
```

Reviewer: It seems like the different tables could use an introduction as to their contents? Why are there 5 different tables? They must be categorized somehow?

Author: On the HIP side, they're used in separate pages despite coming from one file (this is part of what we discussed with parsing from a single source). On this side, there's no need to cherry pick the tables, and instead better to display them.

I've added a short sentence between each table, does that look better?

> .. include_remote:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ROCm/HIP/refs/heads/docs_fix_env/docs/data/env_variables_hip.rst

Reviewer 2: @adeljo-amd How do we want to solve the versioning with this solution? The develop branch, should download the develop branch while docs/x.x.x should download docs/x.x.x

> .. include_remote:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ROCm/HIP/refs/heads/env_variable_rst/docs/data/env_variables_hip.rst

Reviewer 2: I would add the section title between the different tables. At HIP, it looks much better with that.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 35,14,51

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Default value**
      - **Value**

    * - | ``ROCR_VISIBLE_DEVICES``
        | Specifies a list of device indices or UUIDs to be exposed to the applications.
      - None
      - ``0,GPU-DEADBEEFDEADBEEF``

    * - | ``HSA_SCRATCH_MEM``
        | Specifies the maximum amount of scratch memory that can be used per process per GPU.
      -
      -

    * - | ``HSA_XNACK``
        | Enables XNACK.
      - None
      - 1: Enable

    * - | ``HSA_CU_MASK``
        | Sets the mask on a lower level of queue creation in the driver.
        | This mask is also applied to the queues being profiled.
      - None
      - ``1:0-8``

    * - | ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA``
        | Enables the use of direct memory access (DMA) engines in all copy directions (Host-to-Device, Device-to-Host, Device-to-Device), when using any of the following APIs:
        | ``hsa_memory_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_fill``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy_on_engine``.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

>     * - | ``HSA_ENABLE_PEER_SDMA``
>         | Enables the use of DMA engines for Device-to-Device copies, when using any of the following APIs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * - | ``HSA_ENABLE_PEER_SDMA``
        |  .. note:: Note that this environment variable is ignored if ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA`` is set to 0.
        | Enables the use of DMA engines for Device-to-Device copies, when using any of the following APIs:
```

Reviewer: I am not sure if this is the proper syntax for the note added to the table, but you could also add it as something like : 
**Note:** This environment variable is ignored if ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA`` is set to 0.

Author: Fixed

        | ``hsa_memory_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy``,
        | ``hsa_amd_memory_async_copy_on_engine``.
      - ``1``
      - | 0: Disable
        | 1: Enable

> Note that this environment variable is ignored if ``HSA_ENABLE_SDMA`` is set to 0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Removed

      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

HIP environment variables
=========================

The following tables list the HIP environment variables:

.. remote-content::
   :repo: ROCm/HIP
   :path: docs/data/env_variables_hip.rst
   :default_branch: docs/develop
   :tag_prefix: docs/

ROCR-Runtime environment variables
==================================

The following table lists the ROCR-Runtime environment variables:

.. remote-content::
   :repo: ROCm/ROCR-Runtime
   :path: runtime/docs/data/env_variables.rst
   :default_branch: amd-staging
   :tag_prefix: docs/

HIPCC environment variables
===========================

.. remote-content::
   :repo: ROCm/llvm-project
   :path: amd/hipcc/docs/env.rst
   :default_branch: amd-staging
   :start_line: 10
   :tag_prefix: docs/

Additional component environment variables
==========================================

Many ROCm libraries and tools define environment variables for specific tuning, debugging, or
behavioral control. The table below provides an overview and links to further documentation.

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 40, 60

   * - Component
     - Documentation Link

>    * - rocBLAS

Reviewer 2: I think the link should be the component name and the second column should be a high level description about the environment variable's purpose.

Author: Adjusted

.. meta::
    :description: Environment variables reference

>     :keywords: AMD, ROCm, environment variables, environment, reference

Reviewer 3: Any other terms that can be used?
settings?

Author: Added settings

.. role:: cpp(code)
   :language: cpp

.. _env-variables-reference:

*************************************************************

> ROCm environment variables

Reviewer 3: Did you consider having a name that included HIP?
Seems like mostly HIP

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/29acaded-239d-4780-8832-dee59a83ed52)

Author: Fixed

*************************************************************

> The following table lists the most commonly used environment variables in the ROCm software stack. These variables help to perform simple tasks such as building a ROCm library or running applications on AMDGPUs.

Reviewer 3: Not sure what "commonly used" means.
Why don't you tell user where they can find the other EVs.

Reviewer 3: Do these variables actually help to perform simple tasks? I don't believe they do that. 
These variables represent installation locations.

Author: Text has been updated

> The following table lists the most commonly used environment variables in the ROCm software stack. These variables help to perform simple tasks such as building a ROCm library or running applications on AMDGPUs.

Reviewer 3: why **AMDGPUs**?
why not **AMD accelerators and GPUs**?

Author: Fixed

> 

Reviewer 3: This structure is awkward:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0269698c-0b72-4ea0-9220-89fcc746f956)

Suggestion:

**Title (ROCm environment variables)**
Intro sentence - something like:
This topic provides a summary of ROCm, HIP, and ROCm component environment variables. 

H2 - Commonly used environment variables
Text that exists:
The following table lists the most commonly used environment variables in the ROCm software stack. These variables help to perform simple tasks such as building a ROCm library or running applications on

Author: Updated it, introduced a section just for that table so it's less awkward

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :widths: 70,30

    * - **Environment variable**
      - **Value**

>     * - | ``HIP_PATH``

Reviewer 3: These should be in alphabetical order - this one goes second. 
Review the rest of the tables.

Author: Done

>         | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows.

Reviewer 3: make HIP SDK on win a hyperlink

Reviewer 3: Agree with your point

      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``HIP_DIR``
        | The path of the HIP SDK on Microsoft Windows. This variable is ignored, if ``HIP_PATH`` is set.
      - Default: ``C:/hip``

    * - | ``ROCM_PATH``
        | The path of the installed ROCm software stack on Linux.
      - Default: ``/opt/rocm``

    * - | ``HIP_PLATFORM``

>         | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform, if it can find NVCC.

Reviewer 3: HIPCC should be a hyperlink - review the other tables for hyperlink possibilities.

Author: Done

>         | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` is not set, then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform, if it can find NVCC.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        | The platform targeted by HIP. If ``HIP_PLATFORM`` isn't set then HIPCC attempts to auto-detect the platform if it can find NVCC.
```

      - ``amd``, ``nvidia``

HIP environment variables
=========================

> The following tables list the HIP environment variables:

Reviewer 3: hyperlink HIP to an appropriate place.

Reviewer 3: Question: If you're in the HIP docs, how will you find this information? 
I'm concerned about the structure.

Author: There's an environment variable page in HIP already
